White Chocolate-Blueberry Cheesecake
Makes one 10-inch (25.4 cm) cheesecake

Chocolate-Almond Crust
¾ cups (180 ml) almonds
¾ cups (180 ml) coconut flakes
1 ½  ounces (42.5 grams) cacao powder (weight) or ½ cup
5 ounces  (142 grams) date paste (weight) or ¼ cup + a few tablespoons (add as you need)
1 tablespoons (15 ml) cacao nibs (can be omitted - possibly better that way)
2 teaspoons (about 10 ml) liquid vanilla
⅛ teaspoon (about 1.5 grams) salt

Process all ingredients. See cheesecake crust directions.
Now layer the following on top of the crust:

	1 pack (6 ounces or 170 grams weight) blueberries - we omitted this

White Chocolate Filling
	3 cups (710 ml) soaked cashews
	2 cups (470 ml) almond milk
	¾ cup (180 ml) agave syrup
	2 tablespoons (30 ml) lemon juice
	¼ cup (60 ml) liquid vanilla
	¼ teaspoon (about 1.4-1.5 grams) salt
	3 tablespoons (44 ml) lecithin
	⅔ cups (160 ml) cacao butter

Follow the cheesecake filling directions. Reserve 2 cups of filling for swirling and add the following:

	1 pack blueberries (about 6 ounces or 170 grams weight) - we used one cup
	2 tablespoons (30 ml) lemon juice

Follow pouring/swirling directions.

Variations: Substitute other berries for blueberries, such as raspberries or blackberries.

Storage and lifespan: Cheesecake will keep for at least four days. Store covered in fridge.

Cheesecake Crust
Ingredients
Nuts (usually almonds)
Salt
Date paste
Liquid vanilla
Any traditional ingredient the recipe calls for (such as cacao powder)
Directions
Add to food processor the nuts, salt, vanilla, half the amount of date paste, and any other ingredients the recipe may call for.
Process all ingredients until the crust starts to rise on the sides of the processor bowl. Stop the machine and mix with a spatula or spoon.
Repeat a few times until nuts are well broken down. Add remaining date paste and continue processing until mixture is consistent. The final result of the crust should be a mixture that can hold together with a gentle pressure and can be broken apart with a clean break.
Assemble the cheesecake pan with the bottom up (opposite the way it would normally be used with lip facing down). This makes it much easier to serve. Lightly grease the entire inside of the pan with coconut oil.
Distribute crust evenly on the bottom of pan and lightly compact by hand. Set aside until ready to be filled.
Tips
If the nuts are too chunky, first try sharpening the “S” blade of your processor. You can also lightly process the nuts and salt by themselves before adding other ingredients. Adding all the date paste at once will not allow the nuts to break down properly.
	When pressing crust into pan, be careful not to use too much pressure, as this will result in the crust sticking to the pan and making the serving process challenging. On the other hand, if you are not pressing firmly enough the crust will be crumbly and messy. If crust is not sticking together and breaking apart cleanly, you need to add a small splash (½ - 1 teaspoon or 2.5 - 5 ml) of liquid vanilla and process a bit longer.


Cheesecake Fillings
Ingredients
Soaked cashews
Nut milk, coconut milk, juices, or fresh fruits
Agave syrup
Salt
Liquid vanilla
Lecithin
Coconut oil
Any additional ingredient the recipe calls for (such as cacao powder, espresso, etc.)
Directions
Add to blender all ingredients except the coconut oil and lecithin.
Blend well until smooth and creamy (3 - 5 minutes).
Stop blending and add the lecithin and melted coconut oil.
Resme blending until oil and lecithin are well incorporated.
Pour filling into springform pan with prepared crust. Recipe may call for a swirling decoration.
Place in freezer to set 1 - 2 hours or until middle of cheesecake is firm to the touch.
Remove springform ring by inserting a non-serrated paring knife along the inside edge of pan. Open springform, remove cheesecake, and decorate to your liking.
Tips
The ingredients subject to the most variability are the nut milks and coconut milk.
	The most important thing is to blend all ingredients really well. If your blender has less than 8 cups’ (1.89 l) full capacity or if your blender is struggling, blend half the recipe at a time.
	If the filling doesn’t taste rich and flavorful, add another small pinch of salt and blend a little longer. Due to human error, measurements can sometimes be inaccurate. When making cheesecake fillings, be aware of what the total cup volume is in the blender before adding the coconut oil. If the total volume is 6 cups (1.42 l) or more, always add 1 cup coconut oil for those recipes that call for ¾ cup (177 ml).
	Cashew measurement is intended to be medium-packed, meaning you should lightly press down on cashews when measuring.


Swirl
Swirling is a decorating technique we love and utilise often. Cheesecakes are especially suited for this technique. It is a quick, easy way to make a dessert look surprisingly elegant and delicious. It takes just a little bit of practice to perfect, but the following tips and guidelines will dispel some of the mystery around this technique and make swirling an easy process.
Swirling always requires two or more contrasting colours. The stronger the contrast between the colours, the more striking and beautiful the swirl will be. The swirling components will always be liquid, creamy fillings. There can be multiple fillings, which are entirely different in composition and colour, or it can be one filling with a portion altered in colour by added ingredient (such as adding cacao powder to a portion of a cheesecake filling). The basic rule to creating a beautiful swirl is to have each of the fillings as close to the same consistency as possible. This causes them to smoothly and easily flow and glide into each other. The process is very simple. The following measurements are intended for our 10-inch (25.4 cm) cheesecake recipes.

Directions
Pour all but 2 cups (about 470 ml) (or amount specified in the recipe) of the finished filling into the pan (onto prepared crust).
Blend the reserved 2 cups (about 470 ml) with whatever ingredients the recipe calls for (or that you decide to use), This should be a brief blending phase as you just need to combine the added ingredient. Often the recipe will call for some additional liquid (like liquid vanilla) to compensate for the added dry ingredient.
Now, confidently begin to pour into the pan (only about 1 ½ cups or 355 ml at this point). Do not pout lightly. You want some of the coloured mixture to pierce through the surface of the filling, moving around to evenly distribute throughout the cheesecake. This will create a marbled effect on the inside of the cheesecake, which will be visible on the individual slices.
After about 1 ½ cups (355 ml) have been poured, start to pour very lightly, letting a ribbon fall to the surface. Once you start pouring lightly, the coloured filling should sit right on top. Continue to evenly pour the rest of the filling, making sure to touch parts of the edges but not the entire edge.
Now you are ready to swirl. A chopstick (or something comparable) is the best tool to use for this purpose. Insert the chopstick just below the surface and begin moving it around, swirling the fillings into each other. Try to make it as balanced as possible, meaning both colours are equally visible. It is important to know when to stop, as too much swirling will blend everything together and you will lose the contrast of the colours. Actually swirling time is very minimal; the effect is achieved quickly. Remember to be confident and that practice makes perfect.
Tips
If you want only the very top of the dessert to have some light swirling, you will only need about ½ - ¾ cups (120 - 180 ml) of colored filling to swirl with. Some recipes will call for this amount. Follow the above directions, omitting step 43.
Reserve one or more tablespoons of both fillings to do touch-up work on your swirling design if necessary. Ingredients you can add to fillings to change the colour in order to swirl are: cacao powder, spices, vanilla bean, berries, beet juice, or brightly coloured juice. 